.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Bradley Worley <geekysuavo@gmail.com>.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to:
.\"
.\"   Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"   51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor
.\"   Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.ds g \" empty
.ds G \" empty
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.1u-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.TH CAMERA 1 "16 Feb 2016" "camera version 20160216"
.SH NAME
camera \- convex accelerated maximum entropy reconstruction algorithm

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcamera\fR [ \fB-help\fR ]
.LP
\fBcamera\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Estimate the true values of a noisy, nonuniformly sampled (NUS) nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR) dataset using the CAMERA, or Convex Accelerated
Maximum Entropy Reconstruction Algorithm. As opposed to the Cambridge
MaxEnt algorithm, which uses a modified conjugate gradient method that
explicitly computes the gradients of both the spectrum and the data,
CAMERA uses an accelerated first-order method originally published
by Yurii Nesterov.
.PP
This utility is meant to be used as part of an nmrPipe pipeline, where it
is placed between the processing steps of the direct dimension and any
later indirect dimensions. Input data to CAMERA should already be Fourier
transformed and phased (dropping imaginaries) in the direct dimension.
The direct dimension should be the last dimension in the nmrPipe stream.
For example, 2D data should be Y(X) traces, 3D data should be YZ(X) planes,
and 4D data should be YZA(X) cubes.
.PP
More detailed information on usage, including example processing and
reconstruction scripts, is available in the CAMERA GitHub repository:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
http://github.com/geekysuavo/camera
.nf
.in

.SH OPTIONS
A short summary of each option supported by \fBcamera\fR is given below.
.TP
\fB\-in\fR
Specify an input filename. If no filename is specified, \fBcamera\fR will
attempt to read its data from standard input, \fIi.e.\fR a pipe stream.
.TP
\fB\-out\fR
Specify an output filename. If no filename is specified, \fBcamera\fR will
attempt to write its data to standard output, \fIi.e.\fR a pipe stream.
.TP
\fB\-log\fR
Specify an output filename for logging detailed reconstruction information.
If no filename is specified, \fBcamera\fR will simply not print any logging
information.
.TP
\fB\-sched\fR
Required filename of the sampling schedule used to collect the nonuniform
dataset being reconstructed. Each line of the schedule file must contain one
sampled grid index, with multidimensional grid indices represented by
multiple space-delimited values. Indices should be zero-based, \fIi.e.\fR
the first index is expected to be zero.
.TP
\fB\-dims\fR
The number of dimensions to reconstruct in the dataset. By default,
\fBcamera\fR will attempt to guess the number of dimensions by reading
the schedule file.
.TP
\fB\-xN\fR
The number of complex points along the \fIx\fR-dimension of the dataset.
By default, \fBxN\fR is set to one more than the largest \fIx\fR-index
in the schedule file.
.TP
\fB\-yN\fR
The number of complex points along the \fIy\fR-dimension of the dataset.
The default value of \fByN\fR is set similarly to \fBxN\fR.
.TP
\fB\-zN\fR
The number of complex points along the \fIz\fR-dimension of the dataset.
The default value of \fBzN\fR is set similarly to \fBxN\fR.
.TP
\fB\-xJ\fR
The J-coupling constant to be deconvolved from the \fIx\fR-dimension
of the dataset.
.TP
\fB\-yJ\fR
The J-coupling constant to be deconvolved from the \fIy\fR-dimension
of the dataset.
.TP
\fB\-zJ\fR
The J-coupling constant to be deconvolved from the \fIz\fR-dimension
of the dataset.
.TP
\fB\-xW\fR
The exponential decay line width to be deconvolved from
the \fIx\fR-dimension of the dataset.
.TP
\fB\-yW\fR
The exponential decay line width to be deconvolved from
the \fIy\fR-dimension of the dataset.
.TP
\fB\-zW\fR
The exponential decay line width to be deconvolved from
the \fIz\fR-dimension of the dataset.
.TP
\fB\-iters\fR
The number of reconstruction iterations to execute.
.TP
\fB\-threads\fR
The number of parallel reconstructions to execute. \fBcamera\fR will attempt
to verify that enough physical memory exists to hold the requested number
of parallel reconstructions.
.TP
\fB\-accel\fR
The initial accelerated step factor to be used within a backtracking line
search. Larger values will result in faster initial convergence.
.TP
\fB\-delta\fR
The background magnitude of the regularization functional, referred to as
\fIdef\fR in related literature. Larger values result in faster convergence
at the expense of increased broadband noise.
.TP
\fB\-sigma\fR
An estimate of the root-mean-square noise of the measured time-domain data,
referred to as \fIaim\fR in related literature. Only utilized in constant-aim
reconstructions.
.TP
\fB\-lambda\fR
The Lagrange multiplier to set for constant-lambda reconstructions. Setting
this will override any provided value of \fIsigma\fR above.
.TP
\fB\-help\fR
Display a short help message.

.SH CITING
If you use \fBcamera\fR in any published work, it is requested that you
provide attribution to the following peer-reviewed article:

.in +4n
.nf

\fBBradley Worley\fR,
Convex Accelerated Maximum Entropy Reconstruction,
\fIJournal of Magnetic Resonance\fR, 2016, 265: 90-98.
.fi
.in

.SH AUTHOR
Bradley Worley <geekysuavo@gmail.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015\-2016 Bradley Worley <geekysuavo@gmail.com>
.br
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
version 3.0 of the GNU General Public License
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

